Update (#68)
OpenVoiceOS/community-docs: docs/architecture.md

# OpenVoiceOS Architecture
**This section can be a bit technical, but is included for refrence**

OVOS is a collection of modular services that work together to provide a seamless, private, open source voice assistant.  Every OVOS service runs as an indivudually and interacts with one another.

The suggested way to start OVOS is with systemd service files.  Most of the supported images run these services as a normal `user` instead of system wide.  If you get and error when using the system files, try using it as a system service.

- user service
  - `systemctl --user status ovos.service`
- system service
  - `systemctl status ovos.service`

## ovos-core
https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-core

This service provides the main instance for OVOS and handles all of the skill loading, and intent processing.

All user queries are handled by the skills service, you can think of it as OVOS's brain

typical systemd command

`systemctl --user status ovos-skills`

[Technical Docs on Skills](https://openvoiceos.github.io/ovos-technical-manual/skills_service/)

## Messagebus
https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-messagebus

C++ version

> https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-bus_service

Reviewer: add a note this is beta and has know issues where it sometimes crashes  (mostly with the cli utils)

# OpenVoiceOS Architecture

> **This section can be a bit technical, but is included for refrence**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**This section can be a bit technical, but is included for reference.** It is not necessary to read this section for day-to-day usage of OVOS.
```

> OVOS is a collection of modular services that work together to provide a seamless, private, open source voice assistant.  Every OVOS service runs as an indivudually and interacts with one another.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OVOS is a collection of modular services that work together to provide a seamless, private, open source voice assistant.  Every OVOS service runs individually and interacts with the other available services.
```

> OVOS is a collection of modular services that work together to provide a seamless, private, open source voice assistant.  Every OVOS service runs as an indivudually and interacts with one another.

Author: I think I have most of those covered

> The suggested way to start OVOS is with systemd service files.  Most of the supported images run these services as a normal `user` instead of system wide.  If you get and error when using the system files, try using it as a system service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The suggested way to start OVOS is with systemd service files.  Most of the supported images run these services as a normal `user` instead of system wide.  If you get an error when using the system files, try using it as a system service.
```

> The suggested way to start OVOS is with systemd service files.  Most of the supported images run these services as a normal `user` instead of system wide.  If you get and error when using the system files, try using it as a system service.

Author: removed "supported" to just "images"

- user service
  - `systemctl --user status ovos.service`
- system service

>   - `systemctl status ovos.service`

Reviewer 2: This could be confusing - `ovos.service` is a wrapper for interacting with all OVOS systemd services, isn't it? If so, consider making that clear in the documentation.

Author: I did explain that in the `starting ovos` section.  I put that one there as an example of how the `--user` service differs from the `system` service.  I will add a note about it here though

## ovos-core
https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-core

This service provides the main instance for OVOS and handles all of the skill loading, and intent processing.

> All user queries are handled by the skills service, you can think of it as OVOS's brain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All user queries are handled by the skills service. You can think of it as OVOS's brain.
```

typical systemd command

> `systemctl --user status ovos-skills`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`systemctl --user status ovos-skills`
`systemctl --user restart ovos-skills`
```

[Technical Docs on Skills](https://openvoiceos.github.io/ovos-technical-manual/skills_service/)

## Messagebus
https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-messagebus

C++ version

**NOTE** This is an `alpha` version and mostly `Proof of Concept`.  It has been known to crash often

https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-bus_service

The bus service provides a websocket where all internal events travel

You can think of the bus service as OVOS's nervous system

> The mycroft-bus is considered an internal and private websocket, **external clients should not connect directly to it.**

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding the warning back in. This can't be reiterated enough.

> The mycroft-bus is considered an internal and private websocket, **external clients should not connect directly to it.**

Author: Not sure how to phrase this

[Technical docs for messagebus](https://openvoiceos.github.io/ovos-technical-manual/bus_service/)

typical systemd command

`systemctl --user start ovos-messagebus`

## Listener
https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-dinkum-listener

> The listener service is used to detect your voice.  It controlls the WakeWord, STT (Speech To Text), and VAD Plugins.  You can modify microphone settings and enable additional features under the listener section such as wake word / utterance recording / uploading

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The listener service is used to detect your voice.  It controls the WakeWord, STT (Speech To Text), and VAD (Voice Activity Detection) Plugins.  You can modify microphone settings and enable additional features under the listener section such as wake word / utterance recording / uploading.
```

The [ovos-dinkum-listener](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-dinkum-listener) is the new OVOS listener that replaced the origional [ovos-listener](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-listener) and has many more options.  Others still work, but are not recommended.

[Technical Listener Docs](https://openvoiceos.github.io/ovos-technical-manual/speech_service/)

typical systemd command

`systemctl --user start ovos-dinkum-listener`

### STT Plugins

This is where speech is transcribed into text and forwarded to the skills service.

> Two STT plugins may be loaded at once, if the primary plugin fails for some reason the second plugin will be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two STT plugins may be loaded at once. If the primary plugin fails for some reason, the second plugin will be used.
```

> This allows you to have a lower accuracy offline model as fallback to account for internet outages, this ensures your device never becomes fully unusable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows you to have a lower accuracy offline model as fallback to account for internet outages, which ensures your device never becomes fully unusable.
```

> Several different STT (Speech To Text) Plugins are avaliable for use.  OVOS provides a number of public servers using the [ovos-stt-plugin-server](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-stt-plugin-server) plugin and are hosted by OVOS contributors.  No additional configuration is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Several different STT (Speech To Text) Plugins are available for use.  OVOS provides a number of public servers using the [ovos-stt-plugin-server](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-stt-plugin-server) plugin and are hosted by OVOS contributors.  No additional configuration is required.
```

Reviewer 2: Consider a blurb about how these servers are vetted, who hosts them, and general reassurance that they are as private as can reasonably be expected for something you don't host yourself.

[OVOS Supported STT Plugins](https://github.com/orgs/OpenVoiceOS/repositories?q=ovos-stt-plugin&type=all&language=&sort=)

**TODO** Fix link to how to change stt

[Changing STT Plugin](stt-plugins.md)

### WakeWord Plugins

A WakeWord is what OVOS uses to activate the device.  By default `Hey Mycroft` is used by OVOS.  Like other things in the OVOS ecosystem, this is configurable.

[OVOS Supported WakeWord Plugins](https://github.com/orgs/OpenVoiceOS/repositories?q=ovos-ww-plugin&type=all&language=&sort=)

**TODO** Fix link to change ww

[Changing the WakeWord](change-ww.md)

#### HotWords

> OVOS allows you to load any number of hot words in parallel and trigger different actions when they are detected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OVOS allows you to load any number of hot words in parallel and trigger different actions when they are detected.
```

Reviewer 2: Consider explaining the difference between a wake word and a hot word.

Author: Have a suggestion on that?  They differ some, I think, but not sure how to explain it

Reviewer: everything is a hotword, wake words are hotwords that trigger listening

a hotword can also play a sound or emit an event for some other purpose that is not listening

theres also 2 more special cases of hotword in the listener, wakeup_word to get out of sleep mode, and stopword to get out of recording mode

each hotword can do one or more of the following:

  - trigger listening, also called a **wake_word**
  - play a sound
  - emit a bus event
  - take ovos-core out of sleep mode, also called a **wakeup_word** or **standup_word**
  - take ovos-core out of recording mode, also called a **stop_word**

**TODO** fix link to adding HotWords

[Setting and adding HotWords](setting-HotWords.md)

### VAD Plugins

> VAD Plugins serve to detect when you are actually speaking to the device, and when you quit talking.

Reviewer 2: Consider adding a sentence that says typically a user will not change the VAD plugin.

Reviewer: depending on your microphone this might actually be common, and depending on platform too

the default VAD is not great either, silero is absolutely recommended but not a default dependency

[OVOS Supported VAD Plugins](https://github.com/orgs/OpenVoiceOS/repositories?q=ovos-vad-plugin&type=all&language=&sort=)

**TODO** fix link to vad stuff

[Changing VAD Plugin](Change_VAD_Plugin.md)

## Audio

https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-audio

> The audio service handles the output of of all audio. It is how you hear the voice responses, music, or any other noise from your OVOS device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The audio service handles the output of all audio. It is how you hear the voice responses, music, or any other sound from your OVOS device.
```

Reviewer 2: Noise usually has a negative connotation, suggest "sound" instead.

[Configuring Audio](audio_conf.md)

### TTS Plugins

TTS (Text To Speech) is the verbal response from OVOS.  There are several plugins avaliable that support different engines.  Multiple languages and voices are avaliable to use

> OVOS provides a set of public TTS servers hosted by community members.  It uses the [ovos-tts-server-plugin](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-tts-server-plugin), and no additional configuration is needed.

Reviewer 2: See above suggestion re: vetting of servers, data retention, etc

[Supported TTS Plugins](https://github.com/orgs/OpenVoiceOS/repositories?q=ovos-tts-plugin&type=all&language=&sort=)

**TODO** Fix link to how to change tts

[Changing TTS Plugin](change-tts.md)

## PHAL

https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-PHAL

> PHAL stands for Plugin based Hardware Abstraction Layer and is used to allow access of different hardware devices to use the OVOS software stack.  It completely replaces the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PHAL stands for **Plugin-based Hardware Abstraction Layer`. It is used to allow different hardware devices access to use the OVOS software stack.  It completely replaces the concept of a hardcoded "enclosure" from `mycroft-core`.
```

> concept of hardcoded "enclosure" from mycroft-core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Any number of plugins providing functionality can be loaded and validated at runtime, plugins can
be [system integrations](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-PHAL-plugin-system) to handle things like reboot and

> shutdown, or hardware drivers such as [mycroft mark1 plugin](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-PHAL-plugin-mk1)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
shutdown, or hardware drivers such as the [Mycroft Mark 1 plugin](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-PHAL-plugin-mk1).
```

[Supported PHAL Plugins](https://github.com/orgs/OpenVoiceOS/repositories?q=ovos-phal-plugin&type=all&language=&sort=)

**TODO** link to phal plugin details

[PHAL Plugins](phal-plugins.md)

### Admin PHAL

> Similar to regular PHAL, but is used when `sudo` or `privlidged user` is needed

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding a warning NOT to use this unless it is absolutely necessary. Also consider mentioning the average user won't need to configure this.

Author: might check this one and see if that is enough

[Admin PHAL](admin-phal.md)

## GUI

> OVOS uses the standard mycroft-gui framework, you can find the official documentation [here](https://mycroft-ai.gitbook.io/docs/skill-development/displaying-information/mycroft-gui)

Reviewer 2: Possible duplicate section - isn't this above too?

Author: it was in an unused file.  This was copied from that

> The GUI service provides a websocket for gui clients to connect to, it is responsible for implementing the gui protocol under ovos-core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The GUI service provides a websocket for GUI clients to connect to. It is responsible for implementing the GUI protocol under `ovos-core`.
```

**NOTE** The `ovos.service` is just a wrapper to control the other OVOS services.  It is used here as an example showing `--user` vs `system`.

- user service
  - `systemctl --user status ovos.service`
- system service
  - `systemctl status ovos.service`

## ovos-core
https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-core

This service provides the main instance for OVOS and handles all of the skill loading, and intent processing.

All user queries are handled by the skills service.  You can think of it as OVOS's brain

typical systemd command

`systemctl --user status ovos-skills`

`systemctl --user restart ovos-skills`

[Technical Docs on Skills](https://openvoiceos.github.io/ovos-technical-manual/skills_service/)

## Messagebus
[ovos-messagebus](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-messagebus)

C++ version

**NOTE** This is an `alpha` version and mostly `Proof of Concept`.  It has been known to crash often.

[ovos-bus-service](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-bus_service)

> The bus service provides a websocket where all internal events travel

Author: I agree and is redundant with the next sentence.

C++ version

> **NOTE** This is an `alpha` version and mostly `Proof of Concept`.  It has been known to crash often

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE** This is an `alpha` version and mostly `Proof of Concept`.  It has been known to crash often.
```
